3rd party api usage spec (#111)
status-im/specs: docs/draft/9-3rd-party.md

---
permalink: /spec/9
parent: Stable specs

> title: 9/3RD-PARTY

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 9/THIRD-PARTY-USAGE
```

---

# 9/3RD-PARTY

> Version: 0.1
>

> > Status: Draft

Reviewer: Is it draft or stable? Above indicates stable

Author: Changed to draft

>
> Authors: Volodymyr Kozieiev <volodymyr@status.im>

> # 3rd party APIs used for core functionality that impacts things like availability/censorship and privacy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Third party APIs used for core functionality
```

## Table of Contents

1. [Abstract](Abstract)
2. [Definitions](#definitions)
3. [Why 3rd party API can be a problem?](#why-3rd-party-api-can-be-a-problem)
4. [3rd party APIs used by Status](#3rd-party-apis-used-by-current-status-app)
  * [Infura](#infura)
  * [Etherscan](#etherscan)
  * [CryptoCompare](#cryptocompare)
  * [Collectibles](#collectibles)
  * [Iubenda](#iubenda)
5. [Changelog](#changelog)
6. [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)
7. [Copyright](#copyright)

## Abstract

> In this specification listed 3rd party APIs that Status rely on. With the help of that APIs Status:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this specification, we discuss 3rd party APIs that Status relies on. These APIs provide various capabilities such as:
```

> - communicates to Ethereum network

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- communicate with the Ethereum network
```

> - allows user to see address and transaction details on external website

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- allow users to see address and transaction details on external website
```

> - gets fiat<->crypto exchange prices

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- get fiat/crypto exchange rates
```

> - gets information about collectibles

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- get information about collectibles
```

> - hosts privacy policy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- host privacy policy
```

## Definitions

| Term        | Description |
| ------------- |-------------|

> | Fiat money    | Currency which established as money, often by government regulation, but that has no intrinsic value

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Fiat money    | Currency which established as money, often by government regulation.
```

> | Full node    | Any computer, connected to the Ethereum network, which fully enforces all the consensus rules of Ethereum.

Reviewer 2: Not really accurate, a fullnode has the whole state of the network.

> | Crypto-collectible | A cryptographically unique, non-fungible digital asset . Unlike cryptocurrencies, which require all tokens to be identical, each crypto-collectible token is unique or limited in quantity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Crypto-collectible | A cryptographically unique, non-fungible digital asset. Unlike cryptocurrencies, which require all tokens to be identical, each crypto-collectible token is unique or limited in quantity.
```

## Why 3rd party API can be a problem?

> Relying on 3rd party APIs interferes with `censorship resistance` Status principle. Since we aim to avoid suppression of information it is important to reduce amount of 3rd parties crucial for app functionality.

Reviewer 2: Link to principle?

## 3rd party APIs used by current Status app

### Infura

##### What is it?

> Infura hosts a collection of own full nodes on the Ethereum network and provides an API access to the Ethereum and IPFS networks without having to run a full node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Infura hosts a collection of full nodes for the Ethereum network and provides an API to access both the Ethereum and IPFS networks without having to run a full node.
```

##### How Status use it?
Status works on mobile devices and therefore can't rely on local node. So all communication to Ethereum network happens via Infura.

##### Concerns

> Making http request means that user metadata leaks. Also if service hacked it can be used in various attacks, e.g. by faking returning data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Making http request means that a user leaks metadata, which can be used in various attacks if the service is hacked.
```

> Infura hosts on Amazon. It can fail or Amazon can cut off service or their servers crash. In this case all Status features related to Ethereum network calls will fail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Infura hosts on centralized providers. It these fail or the provider cuts off service, then Status features requiring Ethereum calls will.
```

### Etherscan
##### What is it?

> Etherscan is a service that allows user to explore and search the Ethereum blockchain for transactions, addresses, tokens, prices and other activities taking place on Ethereum network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Etherscan is a service that allows user to explore and search the Ethereum blockchain for transactions, addresses, tokens, prices and other activities taking place on Ethereum.
```

##### How Status use it?

> Status Wallet has buttons that allow user to view details of address or transactions on Etherscan site.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Status Wallet allows users to view details of addresses and transactions on Etherscan.
```

##### How Status use it?
Status regularly fetches crypto prices from CryptoCompare. Using that info Status calculates fiat value for transaction or wallet assets.

##### Concerns
Making http request means that a user leaks metadata, which can be used in various attacks if the service is hacked.
If CryptoCompare fails Status won't be able to show fiat equivalent of crypto in wallet.

### Collectibles

There is a set of services that used for getting information about collectibles:
- https://api.pixura.io/graphql
- https://www.etheremon.com/api
- https://us-central1-cryptostrikers-prod.cloudfunctions.net/cards/
- https://api.cryptokitties.co/

##### Concerns
Making http request means that a user leaks metadata, which can be used in various attacks if the service is hacked.

### Iubenda
##### What is it?
Service that helps in creating documents that make websites and apps compliant with the law across multiple countries and legislations.

##### How Status use it?
Privacy policy of Status hosted on Iubenda.

##### Concerns
If Iubenda fails Status users won't be able to navigate to app's privacy policy.

## Changelog

| Version | Comment |
| :-----: | ------- |

> | [0.1.0](https://github.com/specs/...)   | Initial Release |

Reviewer: TODO
